Keep high-ethylene fruits near each other (avocados, apples, peaches, melons, bananas, tomatoes, pears and plums) and away from ethylene-sensitive fruits and vegetables (greens, potatoes, carrots, mangos)

For herbs such as parsley and cilantro, wash and dry, then wrap in a towel and refridgerate.

Ripen citrus at room temperature and move to the refridgerator to slow ripening. 

Refridgerate corn in its husk to keep fresher longer.

Refridgerate eggplant inside a paper bag to slow ripening. 

Keep garlic and onions at room temperature but away from potatoes.

For leafy greens such as lettuces, spinach, chard, kale, collards: wash and dry, then wrap in a towel and refridgerate.

Store mushshrooms loosely in a paper bag in the refridgerator.

For pitted fruits such as peaches, plums, nectarines, apricots, cherries: ripen at room temperature and move to the refridgerator to slow ripening. 

Pineapples and melons should be ripened at room temperature and moved to refridgerator to slow ripening. 

Keep potatoes and winter squashes at room temperature but away from onions. 

Keep tomatoes at room temperature but away from potatoes. 

Store avocados in a paper bag to speed ripening and store in the refridgerator to slow ripening. 

Store bananas at room temperature. 

For carrots, beets, radishes, parsnips and turnips: cut the greens off before refridgerating or they will pull out moisture. 

Refridgerate celery still attached to its core. 

Store guacamole or cut avocado with the avocado pit to slow browning.

Wrap the stem of a banana bunch with plastic wrap to slow the ripening process.

Keep apples in the refrigerator to maintain their crispness for longer.

Store cucumbers in the warmest part of the refrigerator to prevent them from getting water-soaked.

Keep berries unwashed in the refrigerator and only wash right before eating to prevent mold.

Wrap cheese in wax paper, then plastic wrap to prevent it from drying out.

Store asparagus like flowers: Trim the ends and stand them in a jar with water, then refrigerate.

Refrigerate fresh ginger in a paper bag to keep it fresh and mold-free.

Store fresh basil in a glass of water on the counter and cover loosely with a plastic bag.

Keep bread in a cool, dry place in a bread box or wrapped in a cloth to prevent it from going stale.

Freeze nuts and seeds to prevent them from going rancid, especially in warm climates.

Store carrots in a container of water in the refrigerator to keep them crisp.

Keep strawberries in a single layer on a paper towel in a container in the fridge to extend their freshness.

Wrap celery in aluminum foil before refrigerating to keep it crisp.

Store bell peppers in the refrigerator’s crisper drawer to maintain their texture and flavor.

Refrigerate citrus fruits with the skins intact to extend their shelf life.

Keep cucumbers away from bananas and melons to avoid accelerated ripening.

Store green onions in a glass of water on the counter with the roots submerged to keep them fresh.

Place cut mushrooms in a paper towel-lined container to absorb excess moisture.

Store whole grain flours in the refrigerator or freezer to prevent them from spoiling.

Keep stone fruits stem-side down in a single layer at room temperature to ripen evenly.

Store squash in a cool, dark place to extend its shelf life.

Keep watermelon whole and at room temperature until it’s ready to be cut.

Store cut potatoes in water in the refrigerator to prevent browning.

Keep grapes on their stems and refrigerate in a breathable bag or container.

Store zucchini in a perforated plastic bag in the refrigerator to maintain freshness.

Freeze herbs in olive oil in ice cube trays to preserve them for cooking.

Store eggplant at room temperature if it will be used within a day or two; otherwise, refrigerate.

Wrap cut cabbage tightly in plastic wrap to keep it from drying out in the refrigerator.

Keep garlic bulbs in a mesh bag in a cool, dry place for extended shelf life.

Store apples in a separate drawer in the refrigerator to prevent them from ripening other fruits.

Keep baking soda in the refrigerator to absorb odors and keep produce fresh.

Store pomegranates in the refrigerator to extend their shelf life.

Keep unopened olive oil in a cool, dark cupboard and use within a year of opening.

Store peeled garlic cloves in olive oil in the refrigerator for easy use in cooking.

Place a paper towel in bags of pre-washed greens to absorb moisture and keep them fresh.

Keep leeks wrapped in a paper towel and in a plastic bag in the refrigerator.

Store cooked grains in airtight containers in the refrigerator for up to five days.

Place a piece of bread in a bag of brown sugar to keep it soft and prevent clumping.

Store dry beans in airtight containers in a cool, dark place to extend their shelf life.

Wrap leftover citrus peels in plastic wrap and store them in the refrigerator for zesting later.

Keep pears at room temperature to ripen, then refrigerate to slow the ripening process.

Store celery root (celeriac) in a plastic bag in the refrigerator to prevent it from drying out.

Keep kiwis at room temperature until ripe, then refrigerate to slow ripening.

Store cherries in the coldest part of the refrigerator and avoid washing until ready to eat.

Refrigerate fresh turmeric root in a paper bag to keep it fresh for longer.

Wrap the cut side of a melon in plastic wrap and refrigerate to keep it fresh after cutting.

Store dried herbs in an airtight container in a cool, dark place to preserve their flavor.

Keep avocados in a bowl with lemons to slow the browning process after cutting.

Store whole heads of lettuce in a plastic bag with a paper towel to absorb excess moisture.

Freeze leftover tomato paste in spoonfuls on parchment paper, then transfer to a freezer bag for future use.



